hello film seekers on this film
explained we are looking at source code
it's an american science fiction action
thriller film directed by duncan jones
released in 2011 where a u.s army
captain is sent into a computed reality
to find a bomber who planted a bomb in a
train
we see a man sleeping wakes up and finds
himself in a train
he is confused a woman in front of him
tells she took his advice
he starts to look at everyone around him
a conductor asks for ticket
he is confused and she takes it from his
pocket and shows him
and tells he is acting strange he tells
her that he is not sean
i don't know who you are my name is
captain colter stevens
i fly helicopters for the us army in
afghanistan
she laughs not believing him telling he
feels sick
he gets out as the train stop he sees a
teenager pick up a wallet and return it
to a man who dropped it
he asks the boy which place it is he
tells there in chicago
he gets back in as the train leaves
through the pillars of a bridge he sees
his reflection and is shocked
he goes to the bathroom and finds a
reflection of different man in the
mirror
and gets worried he opens his wallet and
sees it belongs to a man named sean
he gets out and the same woman asks if
everything is all right and calls him
sean
he tells her he don't know who shawn is
and nor does he know her and this wallet
doesn't belong to him
she tells him we will get out in the
next stop and figure out whatever's
going on here
oncoming train passes by and an
explosion kills everyone
he wakes up strapped to a pilot seat
hears a woman's voice
she wants him to recall her name but he
struggles remembering so she recites a
series of passages and shows him a
pattern of cards
eventually he recalls her name is
goodwin then he sees some man type
something on the keyboard and leave
he then asks her to let him talk to his
father but she is interested to know who
bombed the train
he doesn't know she tells him to try
again first find the bomb
then the bomber and he will have eight
minutes same as before
he goes back and sees everything
repeating exactly like before
he starts to doubt everyone but finding
the bomber among them was next to
impossible
so he remembers that last time the
explosion came from behind him
where there was a bathroom he begins
searching there he opens the air vents
and finds the bomb there
not knowing what to do he tries to ask
goodwin what he should do
but doesn't get any reply not wanting to
let the bomb explode prematurely
he comes out and pretends to be from
transit security and tells everyone to
turn off all the personal electronics
but no one believes him by then the
explosion happens once again
he tells her that he found the bomb but
also demands to know what is happening
here
so she calls her senior and receives
permission to tell him something
so she tells him that today morning a
bomb exploded on a commuter train
outside of chicago
killing everyone on board a man named
sean was on that train
and he is living the last eight minutes
of sean's memory the train explosion was
the first attack of a series
there are going to be more then he tells
her he found the bomb in the restroom
ventilation panel above the sink she
sends him back telling to focus only on
the mission
everything else is irrelevant this time
he asks the conductor if anybody looks
suspicious
he replies you look suspicious and
leaves then tells her to play a game to
find out who looks the most suspicious
she finds everyone to be normal he sees
a man that looks unwell
coming out of the bathroom where the
bomb is she tells that she saw him
coming out of there too
so he doubts himself and starts to find
something that can prove it
and finds out her name is christina as
that guy gets out
he asks her to get out here she resists
so he kisses her and tells her of having
a bad feeling about this train
and convinces her to get off with him he
asks her to sit down
then follows the man and sits beside him
talks to him
the guy feels he is following him so he
tries to leave so sean grabs his
suitcase tears it apart to find the
phone but finds nothing
they also start to fight and he sees the
train blast meaning it was not him
he continues but gets pushed to the
track where an oncoming train runs over
him
he wakes up in that capsule but it was
freezing cold inside
he tries to contact goodwin but unable
to contact her
they too are trying to contact him but
hear no response
she sees some abnormalities in his
vitals and tries to reconnect to him but
there's nothing they can do
he tries everything to get out from
there but after connecting some wires
they reconnect and the temperature gets
to normal
he tells her that he saved a woman from
the train the man tells him he saved her
but only in the source code not in the
real world
he asks what that is the man who created
this explains him that with an example
of a light bulb that produces a dim
light after it's turned off
he compares it with the brain telling
that its electromagnetic charge remains
charged briefly even after death
it also contains a short-term memory
track that's approximately eight minutes
he also cannot exist there after eight
minutes it isn't time travel
it gives them access to parallel reality
sean claims that he saved one girl that
sits across me
he tells her name and when they check
and confirm she died on the train this
morning
they tell him that soon there is going
to be a second attack on downtown
chicago
and more lives would be lost so they
need him to gather information about the
bomber to prevent more attacks
she tells sean the location of a
strongbox in the train
inside is a loaded gun use it this time
as he talks to christina
he predicts things as is happens then
asks her if she would trust him if he
would do something that is a bit
dangerous
she says no he appreciates her for being
painfully honest
she's surprised asking who are you what
did you do to sean
it's the new me he says then tries to
break in the security
box but right as he gets the gun he gets
tasered
he wakes up and sees he is handcuffed so
he pleads christina to give him a phone
so he could talk to his dad
and say sorry for having a bad time with
his father before he left afghanistan
she tells him everything will be all
right before the train blows up once
again
he wants to know how he is doing in this
program and whether goodwin has
participated in this
wanting to compare his performance with
her she is worried of wasting valuable
time
he notices an acronym of that department
she tells no
she isn't a viable candidate a very few
can do what he is doing
he also asks to let him talk to his
father but she tells him they will let
him after the mission
and tells him to focus on the mission
all this makes him more suspicious about
the truth
he is sent back again and this time he
asks christina to find out what happened
to his friend who was in military
he was in afghanistan and he disappeared
and didn't hear anything about him since
his name is captain colter stevens which
is actually himself but everyone here
thinks he is sean
he finds out from a woman that the
acronym belongs to the air force
division
then takes her phone tries to contact
rutledge who has created the source code
and leading this mission
the operator tells him to wait christina
comes to him
she is sad to say that his friend is
dead he thinks she must have looked for
some wrong name
she confirms it's about the right person
but telling his name his dad's name
his last mission and time of death that
is two months ago during his last
mission
he is shocked how can he be here in the
train when he is actually dead
he faints and recollects some memory of
how he died he wakes up in that capsule
asks her if he is dead she tells that
only a part of his brain is still alive
he asks about the rest of his body he
can see and feel his hands and feet
she tells it's just illusion and this
place this capsule is also an illusion
he tells rutledge that he called him
from the train just before the explosion
rutledge tells him even if he made a
call it will be received by a different
dr rutledge
he is sent to a different reality
captain stevens tells what he is doing
can't be legal
rutledge tells that it has been reviewed
and sanctioned by military court
many soldiers would find this preferable
to death the opportunity to continue
serving the country even after death
captain stevens asks how much time has
he spent in battle
he's a scientist so he hasn't stephen
tells that any soldier would say one
death a service enough for a country
so he let him have his death after
completing this mission then tells
goodwin to not give any more rest
periods
he is sent back repeatedly but fails to
find the bomber each time
he gives up telling he can't find the
bomber rutledge tells him
you're a born hero son even your father
thinks so
saving people is what you do best and
plays his father's recording during his
funeral
which motivates him to try again this
time he first takes the pistol
then go to the bomb and disconnects the
cell phone connected to it which was
acting as a detonator
he calls back on its last number someone
receives it
he tells he will find him comes to the
compartment and tells him to turn around
a guy in front who is also using phone
turns and he thinks that this guy is the
bomber
and takes him into gunpoint the guy is
confused what he is talking about and
tells him that he is software engineer
and he was talking to his wife then asks
him to dial it again
he calls again but his phone doesn't
ring he notices that a guy who got out
picks the phone as he called
a teenager gives the wallet back to the
man stevens follows him
and sees the guy go to another door and
drops it off again
stevens picks it up and finds out that
the person's name is derek frost
he jumps off the train seeing which
christina asks to stop the train
he follows the man who was just about to
leave in a white van
while approaching him stephen sees the
number plate then points a gun at the
man but he denies of any involvement
with the bomb
steven shows him the wallet which he
dropped twice on purpose so that
everybody would think you were dead
and not a suspect after the explosion he
smiles and proceeds to show him the bomb
which he created and plans to use to
blow up chicago
he gets distracted when he sees that
christina has followed him off the train
and gets shot then the bomber shoots
christina the bomber sees that his name
is sean and he is a teacher steven was
unable to move but still conscious and
asks why
he tells him that the world is hell but
we have a chance to start over in the
rubble
but first there has to be rubble then
leaves surprisingly the train still
explodes
stevens returns and informs dr rutledge
the name of the bomber and the number
plate on his van
he asks about the deal which was to let
him die after the mission
rutledge hoped that he might reconsider
that for the sake of the program
stevens tells him that he has he wants
something else now
he still wants to die but he wants to go
back in and save all those people on
that train first
he knows that it won't work but still
wants to try on the other hand
the bomber is captured and goodwin
congratulates him he tells her he missed
something
the train shouldn't have blown up there
must have been a second detonator
something he couldn't see a fail safe
she tells it's a computer program
the girl on the train all the others
they're lost
he tells that she is wrong she doesn't
have to be dead he asks her to send him
back in and switch off the program
he manages to convince her telling him
that she will terminate his life support
after eight minutes
she sends him back this time he removes
both the cell phone detonators from the
bomb
then steals the handcuff from the
security officer stops the bomber from
getting off the train and handcuffs the
bomber to the train
then calls police and informing himself
as derrick which is the bomber's name
and tells them the location of the two
bombs one in the train and the other in
a van
then calls his father and talks to him
by introducing himself as shauna friend
of stevens
then returns to christina turns out that
stevens loves christina and she too
loves him
he bets his money to a comedian claiming
that he cannot make all the people on
this train laugh
the comedian takes it and proceeds to
make everyone laugh
he then takes christina to the other
side of the compartment
asks her what she would do if it was her
last one minute of life
she would make those seconds count then
kisses her as he runs out of time
and the time seems to stop to us it
turns out that the scientist never
intended to let stevens rest
and plans to create more programs
similar to this and reuse stevens again
by wiping out his memories
however goodwin decided to end stephen's
life disobeying the orders from the
scientist
stevens is shocked to see him and
everyone alive even after his life
support was removed
his consciousness now resides with sean
in this universe
and he sends a message to this version
of goodwin informing her that today she
will hear
news about a failed terrorist attack on
a commuter train near chicago
they too kept the bomb from going off
she goes to dr rutledge room and hers
the same news
she leaves and we see rutledge saying
someday there will be a crisis and
source code will be useful on that day
stevens also tells her that they are not
just creating eight minutes of a past
event
but they are actually creating a whole
new world then asks her to take care of
the captain stevens in this universe and
tell him that everything will be okay
the movie ends here since you watched
till the end you might like similar
content
so do consider subscribing and turn on
the bell to never miss out my videos
thanks for watching and do leave a
comment about what you felt about the
movie